o run the application manually after shutting down and restarting your computer, follow these simple steps

1. Open Terminal or PowerShell
Open PowerShell or Command Prompt on your computer.

2. Navigate to the Backend Directory
Type the following command and press Enter

powershell
cd dRide-Sharebackend
3. Activate the Virtual Environment
Activate the environment to load the installed dependencies

If using PowerShell
powershell
.venvScriptsActivate.ps1
If using Command Prompt (CMD)
cmd
.venvScriptsactivate.bat
4. Run the Development Server
Start the local server by running

powershell
python manage.py runserver
5. Access the Web App
Open your web browser and navigate to http127.0.0.18000

NOTE

Since the database (db.sqlite3) is persistent, your accounts and seeded rides are preserved. You do not need to re-run the seed_demo command unless you want to reset everything back to the default state.

For more details on managing scripts, see 

RUN_LOCALLY.md
 or 

DOWNLOAD_AND_RUN.md
.

332 PM
How to Run
Username passwords
How to use the website in local and after deployment in vercel 
335 PM
Here is a complete quick-reference guide on how to run, log in, use the website, and configure it for Vercel deployment.

1. How to Run (Locally)
Open a terminalcommand prompt and navigate to the project directory
cmd
cd dRide-Sharebackend
Activate your virtual environment
Windows PowerShell .venvScriptsActivate.ps1
Windows CMD .venvScriptsactivate.bat
macOSLinux source venvbinactivate
Run the development server
bash
python manage.py runserver
Access the web app at http127.0.0.18000
2. Demo User Credentials
You can use the Quick Demo Login Buttons at the bottom of the sign-in page to log in instantly with one click, or enter the credentials manually

Profile Role	Username	Password	Key Purpose
Administrator	admin	admin123	View statistics, access Django Admin, resetre-seed database
Driver	driver	driver123	Update profilevehicle, publish routes, acceptreject rides
Passenger	passenger	pass123	Search matching routes, book rides, simulate checkout payment
3. How to Use the Website (Local Guide)
Demonstrate Route Matching (Passenger & Driver)
Log in as the Driver (driver). Go to Publish Ride. Enter a departure time, available seats, fare, and select the Seeding Delhi Route or Seeding Bangalore Route preset at the bottom. Click Publish Active Ride.
Log out and log in as the Passenger (passenger). Go to Search Rides. Click the Delhi Airport Route or Bangalore Metro Route suggestion buttons to load coordinates. Click Find Optimal Matches.
The platform calculates waypoints and displays matching rides with a compatibility score.
Demonstrate simulated payments
On the match result card, click Request & Pay. Select Simulate Success State on the invoice screen to submit your booking.
Approve bookings (Driver)
Log back in as the Driver. You will see the incoming request under Incoming Booking Requests. Click Accept.
Live Telemetry & SOS
Navigate to View RouteTrack on the ride page. Click Simulate Ride to watch the vehicle marker animate along OpenStreetMap waypoints. Click SOS Emergency to trigger the acoustic siren sound warning.
4. Running the Website on Vercel
Vercel is a serverless platform that supports Python web applications through WSGI adapters.

Step 1 Create Vercel Configuration
Create a vercel.json file in your root workspace directory (dRide-Sharevercel.json)

json
{
  version 2,
  builds [
    {
      src backendconfigwsgi.py,
      use @vercelpython,
      config { maxDuration 15 }
    }
  ],
  routes [
    {
      src static(.),
      dest backendstatic$1
    },
    {
      src (.),
      dest backendconfigwsgi.py
    }
  ]
}
Step 2 Deployment Configs
Database Limitations Vercel functions are stateless and ephemeral. The local SQLite file (db.sqlite3) will be read-only and reset on function timeouts. For database changes to persist, you should link a PostgreSQL instance (like Neon Serverless Postgres) to Django by modifying settings.py DATABASES configurations.
Environment variables On the Vercel Dashboard, go to your project settings and configure environment variables for SECRET_KEY and DEBUG=False.
For alternative persistent hosting platforms (e.g. Render, PythonAnywhere, Railway), check the 

DEPLOYMENT.md
 documentation.